
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# External Cues and Policy Preferences: Rethinking the Drivers of Policy Positions

[Francisca Castro](https://francisca-castro.com/) • Institute of Social
Sciences • Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin  
[Jennifer Oser](https://www.jenniferoser.com/) • Department of Politics
and Government • Ben-Gurion University of the Negev  
[Fernando Feitosa](https://ferfeitosa.github.io/) • Department of
Political Science • McGill University  
[Nir Grinberg](https://www.nirg.net/) • Department of Software and
Information Systems Engineering • Ben-Gurion University of the Negev

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Abstract

At a time when the influence of multiple types of external cues on
opinion formation is gaining attention due to their relevance for
preference formation, this research note investigates how external cues
from political elites and close friends shape individual policy
preferences. Building on prior studies by Barber and Pope (2018) and
Barber and Pope (2023) regarding Donald Trump’s impact on people’s
policy preferences in surveys fielded during his 2017-2021 presidency,
we examine whether this influence persists soon after Trump’s first
presidential tenure concludes in late 2021 through a survey experiment
to a representative sample of Americans. We also assess the influence of
a second external cue that has gained attention due to the growing role
of social media in political processes: a close friend, who might also
serve as a relevant figure for policy position formation. We find that
the effects of these cues are limited and conditional on respondents’
characteristics, such as Republican party affiliation and low levels of
political knowledge. These findings suggest the importance of official
office-holding for the influence of political elites, and also indicate
that policy preferences may be less malleable through social networks
than is often presumed in contemporary discourse.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## How to download and replicate

You can download the data for replication
[here](https://github.com/frcastrog/erc-paper-policy-preferences/tree/main/data/data-raw).
This is the raw data of Cooperative Election Study (CES) for the period
November and December 2021.

The script `00-data-prep` contains the code to make the necessary
modifications to the original data, which includes recoding, flag
creation, and cleanup.

The script `01-replication` contains the code to replicate the figures
and tables of both the manuscript and the supplementary information.

## References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent"
entry-spacing="0">

<div id="ref-barber2018" class="csl-entry">

Barber, Michael, and Jeremy C. Pope. 2018. “Does Party Trump Ideology?
Disentangling Party and Ideology in America.” *American Political
Science Review* 113 (1): 38–54.
<https://doi.org/10.1017/s0003055418000795>.

</div>

<div id="ref-barber2023" class="csl-entry">

———. 2023. “Does Issue Importance Attenuate Partisan Cue-Taking?”
*Political Science Research and Methods*, August, 1–9.
<https://doi.org/10.1017/psrm.2023.28>.

</div>

</div>
