
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# External Cues and Policy Preferences: Rethinking the Drivers of Policy Positions

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Abstract

This research note investigates how political figures and social
influences shape individual policy preferences. Specifically, it
revisits the model proposed by Barber and Pope (2018) and Barber and
Pope (2023) regarding Donald Trump’s impact on people’s liberal or
conservative stances toward a set of policy issues in surveys fielded
during Trump’s presidency. We explore whether Trump’s influence persists
post-presidency as well as whether an additional significant factor in
the contemporary social media age may also affect policy views, namely
the opinion of a close friend. Results indicate that Trump and a close
friend’s cues do not affect policy support and have a limited effect
when examining specific policies, such as taxes, immigration, and
background checks. These findings contribute to existing research by
demonstrating the waning influence of a prior President no longer in
office, as well as the negligible effect of the alternative influence of
a hypothetical close friend as measured in our survey experiment. We
conclude by outlining additional ways in which the potential close
friend effect could be investigated in future research.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## How to download and replicate

The original dataset is available in the file titled `data.sav` This is
the raw data of Cooperative Election Study (CES) for the period November
and December 2021.

The `script` contains the code to make the necessary modifications to
the original data, which includes recoding, flag creation, and cleanup.
It also contains the code to replicate the figures and tables of both
the manuscript and the supplementary information.

## References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-barber2018" class="csl-entry">

Barber, Michael, and Jeremy C. Pope. 2018. “Does Party Trump Ideology?
Disentangling Party and Ideology in America.” *American Political
Science Review* 113 (1): 38–54.
<https://doi.org/10.1017/s0003055418000795>.

</div>

<div id="ref-barber2023" class="csl-entry">

———. 2023. “Does Issue Importance Attenuate Partisan Cue-Taking?”
*Political Science Research and Methods*, August, 1–9.
<https://doi.org/10.1017/psrm.2023.28>.

</div>

</div>
